Post/jtb we mastered the art of programming (#59)
dot-layer/blog: content/blog/2019-01-18-EN-we-mastered-the-art-of-programming.md

---
title: We Mastered the Art of Programming
author: Jean-Thomas Baillargeon
date: '2019-01-07'
slug: we-mastered-the-art-of-programming
type: post
tags:
- software engineering
- best practices
description: ""
featured: "we-mastered-the-art-of-programming-cover.jpeg"
featuredpath: "img/headers/"
---

This is probably going to sound cliché and trivial but I just realised that I learned how to use a computer before learning to use a pen. I launched my favorite game on a MS/DOS terminal a few years before writing my name on paper.

> This is cliché and trivial since this holds true for many of us data scientist growing up with a computer. We found a way to download music out of napster, limewire or torrents - whatever was working at that time. We figured how to burn our friends’ game on a CD-ROM and then crack it with a fake CD KEY. We learned how to repair the family’s printer. We understood how to connect our laptop to Eduroam. We made very serious and scientific calculations for school points. We then moved to a workplace where we grasp the depth of the `vLookup`. We connected thousands of *Excel* spreadsheets together. We mastered the art of programming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is cliché and trivial since this holds true for many of us data scientists growing up with a computer. We found a way to download music out of napster, limewire or torrents - whatever was working at that time. We figured how to burn our friends’ game on a CD-ROM and then crack it with a fake CD KEY. We learned how to repair the family’s printer. We understood how to connect our laptop to Eduroam. We made very serious and scientific calculations for school points. We then moved to a workplace where we grasp the depth of the `vLookup`. We connected thousands of *Excel* spreadsheets together. We mastered the art of programming.
```

Reviewer: many of us data scientistS

## problem solving at it's finest.

> What connects the dot are the curiosity and the satisfaction of solving a problem, a computer problem. We make things work. This is how we get points on a school assignment. This is how our boss sees us as the achiever. This is how we create pure value. Based on this, it only makes sense that the faster you solve a computer problem, the better you are.

Reviewer: dot/dots -- Je sais que t'as regardé ça pas mal d'jà, so c'est probablement comme tu veux already.

## Why isn't this working ?

This called for my problem solving skills. How can I achieve faster production? By better understanding what he was doing.

First thing I saw is the pre-processing step was nightly done by a robot. The second thing I saw was his cache, where all the data were ready for treatment and intermediate values were even pre-calculated (for data grouping and other analysis). The third thing was the modeling part, where everything was so tightly bundled that he could multi-thread all different data cross-sections in one operation. The best part of all this was — all those things were done by 9 am when he arrived. Least to say that gave him plenty of time to work on his analysis.

> I asked him if he could lend me a piece or two to integrate them into my scripts. As a good teammate, he obliged and provided me with a chunk of code. My pride was hurt enough that I went back to my desk alone and worked on it by myself. It was a relatively big chunk of code, so I expected a proportionate effort to plug everything and test. I opened the code and could quickly locate the line that would require modification. The music of typing was flowing into my ears — yes I had my [mechanical keyboard](http://www.wasdkeyboards.com/index.php/products/code-keyboard/code-87-key-mechanical-keyboard.html) at that time. It only took me around half an hour to do everything. I made it work without any unexpected side effects the first time I launched the script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I asked him if he could lend me a piece or two to integrate them into my scripts. As a good teammate, he obliged and provided me with a chunk of code. My pride was hurt enough that I went back to my desk alone and worked on it by myself. It was a relatively big chunk of code, so I expected a proportionate effort to plug everything and test. I opened the code and could quickly locate the lines that would require modifications. The music of typing was flowing into my ears — yes I had my [mechanical keyboard](http://www.wasdkeyboards.com/index.php/products/code-keyboard/code-87-key-mechanical-keyboard.html) at that time. It only took me around half an hour to do everything. I made it work without any unexpected side effects the first time I launched the script.
```
lineS ... modificationS
Ça dépend de ce que tu voulais dire I guess. Même dans ce cas, je ne suis pas certain pour le `s` à modif.
